Minutes for Cytoscape conference call Thursday, May 06, 2004

Attendance:
Iliana, Ethan, Gary, Rob, Chris, Rowan, Andrew (did I miss someone?)

Agenda:
New interfaces (Rowan)
2.0 release schedule
2.1 CVS branching

New Interfaces:
CyNetwork (model) is done and checked in to cvsdir5. CyNetwork extends
GraphPerspective and all Nodes are CyNodes and CyEdges, thus you don't need
to import Giny stuff into your code.  Rowan feels this is good code now.

We are moving towards better separation of model and view. This will support
headless mode - two options - 1. show window, but don't show View (just
having the option) 2. just have command line.  Not sure which one to go with
yet - will evaluate.

"Begin activity" related methods are deprecated - Andrew is not sure if
these are useful or not.  Nothing bad happened if you don't call them.

Set intersection/union functionality feature request for CyNetworks from
Gary.
Chris mentioned that this is similar to loading graphs on the RootGraph
level - default is a union.  Replacing old data should be an option to avoid
keeping old data lying around.  Union is the default, replace should be an
option for the user.

Iliana said we will eventually allow users an advanced mode to load a
library of nodes and then create subsets of that. We should make sure not to
lose the simplicitly of the current interface by forcing the users to learn
extra concepts, even if they are simple.

View API status - as Rowan was working on this, realized you need a manager
for the views and networks (2 separate managers).  Some code was written
around this.  Methods are present that allow you to get networks or views
from the managers.  E.g. getCurrentNetwork or getCurrentNetworkView to
operate on those.  Network managers are a treeview sidebar - parent and
children networks.

How to visualize this - panes or everything in it's own JFrame - network
manager handles this, based on type of view that you select.
There are 3 view modes: Tabbed view, internal frame, external frames.

Rob - with external view - what's the indication that an external view links
back to the original network.  Rowan feels that right now we should only
support one view per network and we can revisit it later.  This is good to
reduce complications.
Answer: If you select a view - it highlights the network in the treeview.
Chris - you want to know which networks have views or not in the treeview -
need icons or other colors.
Status: Rowan is testing event firings, needs some work.  Also, must create
a toolbar for it.  Also, save the state data on the network view (e.g. what
current visual style is), so as you change focus, the vizmapper is updated
based on what view the user clicks on.
Each View has a style attached to it.

The UI and the manager are tied together conceptually - this needs to be
worked on.

How to check this in to CVS?  Easiest will be to check it in directly.  How
can we do this without affecting bugs on the main 2.0 release.  Decision:
branch to 2.1 - 2.0 will only have CyNetwork API and after this will not get
new features, just bugfixes.  This will be merged later by Rowan, with help
from others.

Demo plugin - Andrew will update his.  Ethan hasn't updated his old one to
2.0.  We should have one for 2.0 and again for 2.1 with the new APIs.  This
is a TODO item for final release.

Gary needs to do testing - before he does this, will ask Ethan to release as
a new baseline.

yFiles plugin - is it available - should be in the release. It's all
obfuscated.

Chris' concerns - GML - polyline support for GML was added

Summary of release schedule (also talked about by Benno, Hamid, Trey and
Gary)
Cytoscape 2.0 will have current features (including CyNetwork API - the high
level graph API), but not CyNetworkView (the graph display API), which will
go into 2.1.  This should not affect plugins that already use GINY that
much, but if any changes are made that will break existing 2.0 plugins, then
Rowan will let everyone know how to update them - these are expected to be
minor changes.

In the meantime, we branch the CVS repository to 2.1 to allow Rowan to
implement the new features for 2.1 without disturbing the 2.0 release
schedule.

2.0 is currently in alpha 1 release. We will go through one more testing
round to close old bugs and input new ones to allow one more round of bug
fixing and release alpha 2.  Then we will go through an optimization phase
(maybe 1 week) to increase performance.


