Hi Everybody:

Here are the minutes from last week's meeting:

1.  Graph Package:  the group is busy implementing the y-file wrappers;
things are moving along, and hope to have a version completed by early
next week (e.g. week of June 16).  The group discussed the overall need to
do more performance testing, especially on very large graphs.

2.  Core Refactoring:  work has begun on the CytoscapeWindor refactoring;
CytoscapeWindow is now broken into several other classes, and the class is
down to 1900 lines, from the original 3600 lines.  Steady progress being
made, but still lots of work to be done.

3.  CVS Server:  Trey is moving to San Diego in July.  CVS server @ MIT is
being unplugged this coming Monday (June 16.)  ISB can support a CVS
server, but the IT staff at ISB needs to place it on a dedicated server.
Benno is willing to purchase the new server, but wants to talk to Trey
first.  If this is just a stop-gap measure for a few weeks, it may not be
worth purchasing a whole server.  Benno to follow-up with Trey.

4.  Community Outreach:  General discussion about creating a community
portion of the cytoscape.org site.  This might include mailing lists,
bulletin boards, list of plug-ins, etc.  This led to a general discussion
about how to replace Owen, and all the work he did on the cytoscape.org
web site, and the build distribution.  Benno currently has access to the
cytoscape.org site, and will share the access as needed to others.  No
real resolution on community outreach, except everyone agreed that we
should look into it further.

5.  Osprey:  Gary went to Toronto, and met with the Osprey group.  Gary
told them about the latest cytoscape plans, including the refactoring,
data services, etc.  The Osprey group is on board for supporting
Cytoscape, and would like to create a plan for integrating osprey features
into cytoscape.  They will begin by looking into how to create cytoscape
plug-ins.  Major concerns of the osprey group:  Mac OS X compatibility,
caching performance, performance of big graphs, and multiple colors on
individual nodes, e.g. pie charts.

6.  Data Services:  Ethan gave a quick update on the data services, Phase
2.  Phase 2 is now wrapping up.  Newest feature includes the ability to
read in PSI-MI (Proteomics Standards Initiative, Molecular Interaction)
XML.  You can now read in PSI from 1) file; 2) URL; or 3) via the new CBio
Data service.  Planning for Phase 3 will start in the next few days.

