Present: Andrew, Rowan, Larissa, Iliana, Phil, Gary, Ethan, Chris.

Agenda
1) Refactoring update/beta release.

2) Filters ( old and new);(Rowan)

3) Packaging and csplugins;(Iliana)

4) Presentation of the nodes and edges with the same name.(Chris)


1) Giny Beta release. When should we do it?

Andrew fixed startup delay bug, and few other things.
Rowan is going to hack the bug of self-edge problem and we are ready to 
make a release. Probably tomorrow....
This is going to be an internal release and  we are going to send it to 
few external  people, who are waiting on giny/cytoscape version.
In order to do extensive testing only on one release we agreed to remove 
y-files and then make a Beta release (without y-files) test it, and make 
it available to the public.
Some of the old vizmapper bugs should be solved, since Andrew is 
refactoring the vizmapper for giny. If you see vizmapper bugs report it 
to Andrew.

We also will need to update the plugin page to make clear distinction 
which plugin works with which version of Cytoscape.

So Ethan will make a release within next couple of days and tag the source.

2) Filters. Rowan wrote new filters in a plugin.
Old fiters were geared to selection only and had a lot of dependency on 
y-files. Rowan rewrote the filter interface to make it more generic. Old 
GUI for filters is bulky. New Filters will have less tabs, filters will 
be in a list.
Approximately 1/2 of the old filters are ported to new arquitecture and 
Rowan wants us to take a look at his plugin and let him know what we 
think of it. There is Node Type Filter and Node Attribute Filter. What 
is the difference? NodeTypeFIlter is an absolete thing, we should have 
only NodeAttributeFilter.
You can implement new filter in your plugin and let filter manager know 
about it.
The main new idea is that you can use filters anywhere (before they were 
available only for selection).
Iliana point out that we should make filters to be notified of updates ( 
for example if the new node attribute file was loaded we should update 
the gui list of the attributes).


3) Is there a standard for where you put a class for plugin? With the 
new csplugin structure it is not very clear where you package your plugin.
There is no specific standard but may be we should work up one to 
eliminate confusion with multiple plugins in multiple places.

Also we should decide which plugins we want to deliver with the core and 
which should be downloaded separately. Not everything in "common" is 
nessecarily needs to be delivered. As we develop more and more plugins 
we might have a bundles of plugins addressed to a specific user for 
download with the core.

4) Unique ID for the nodes and edges (canonical name)  is not really 
unique... That causes a lot of questions, problems.
We need to rewrite GraphObjAttributes to have a numerical unique Id for 
the nodes and edges. That will allow us to develop a lot of good  stuff 
( merging 2 graphs, splitting graphs, representing same canonical name 
more than once in a graph etc.)

