11/13/03
Meeting Minutes

Present: Rowan, Benno, Larissa, Andrew, Gary, Ethan, Rob

Agenda
-Release without yfiles
-Release cvsdir5 release issues
-Move csplugins to cvsdir5
-Status of cvsdir5 (todo list)
-Status of cPath

-Release without yfiles
----------------------------
We want to provide external plugin writers an unrestricted version as
quickly as possible.  Currently, we're missing filters, GML writer/reader,
layouts compared to 1.1.

We should do an internal release soon, with the current code in cvsdir5.
This will give people access to the new structure, new API and
documentation. 

We discussed dropping yfiles.
Pro: Would be geared towards plugin writers that might not have y-files and
to serve as a milestone.
Con: We need the yfiles layouts.  Larissa mentioned that one way to get
around this is to provide the yfiles layouts in a plugin.  This is a good
idea.
We need to remain compatible with existing plugins.  We need to talk to
Trey, Iliana and Vesteinn about compatibility issues.  Although they can
still use cvsdir4 v1.1 and when we update the plugins, they will be
available for version 2.

Andrew noted that we can still provide the obfuscated executable that people
can use GINY with.  Still a pain, but not a barrier.

-Release cvsdir5 release issues
-------------------------------------
We want to release current version now so that people can start writing new
plugins.  Andrew has done a lot of work to enable the plugin writers to know
what they can do (API), etc.

We will need two versions of the plugins page to support existing users, one
for each Cytoscape version.

Need to have an internal beta test period to find showstopping bugs.  Need a
release that people can compile without y-files.  We have a couple of users
that will use the GINY only version of Cytoscape.

We should have a release document that explains to people what is ready to
test and what's not.  Andrew can put this together.

Andrew has been removing menu options for things that aren't supported.

We have to change the scripts to use GINY as the default - Ethan can update
the scripts and put together the release and give it to Andrew to put on a
private web page with documentation.

Technical point: Manifest files:  There are 2 of them: root and tools.
We'll use the root one.

-Todo list for new features for version 2
-----------------------------------------------
Andrew has compiled a list.  How should we prioritize?
We generally agreed that we should prioritize finishing features that exist
in v1.1 and then add new feature later in v2.1

A non exhaustive list:
Layout algorithms - Filters, remove y-file, undo manager, GML, Cytoscape is
window centric - how to do command line only.  GraphObj attributes need
refactoring, CyWindow needs cleanup, Cleanup of menu code, vizmapper needs
cleanup (make UI more intuitive, fix bugs by refactoring e.g. Andrew found
that graph is redrawn 20 times when vizmapper is pulled up, save a visual
style to one file and other user comments), UI reworking.

New functions - layout manager - save layouts, deal with layout better,
annotation handling (ability to start up with annotations e.g. GO and KEGG),
Issue how Cytoscape deals with startup and command line arguments.

We decided the most important would be refactoring/cleaning up GraphObj
Attributes (databases), Window management (headless mode, share data between
windows), clean up visual mapper.  This will also help the MSK group to add
features to the core when we start getting more time in the near future.

-Move csplugins to cvsdir5
--------------------------------
We should restructure csplugins in cvsdir5.  Create user directories for
user code and common stuff can have their own directories.  We should start
moving old csplugins into cvsdir5 (make compatible with Giny).  All common
plugins should use ant.

Larissa will send an e-mail with this proposal to get more feedback.


--

Phil via Benno - Bug#75 - attribute files with both integers and double
values.  Cytoscape guesses based on the first value.  Could be dealt with in
a number of ways.  One user friendly way is to assume double if there is a
guess or more complicated things like search the file to figure things out.
Best solution would be to search the file and see what's in there.  Other
things could be done, but we would want to keep things simple.

cPath update from Gary
-MSK group has built a PSI compliant database (called cPath) and Cytoscape
plugins to link to it (e.g. retrieve interactions directly into Cytoscape
from the DB).  In the next month or so, we'll have a functioning demo that
we'll release to cytostaff to try out and get new feature requests.

-Version 2 of cPath will add BioPAX compliance, which will mean ability for
storing full pathways and genetic interactions.  We'll probably only be able
to start this in Feb-March.



