
Minutes for Cytoscape conference call Thursday, July 10, 2003

Attendance:
Benno, Paul, Larissa, Iliana, Rowan, Trey, Jonathan, Gary, Ethan

Agenda
Build process
Vizmapper bug
Bug tracker

Build process

Ethan has completed the ant script that builds Cytoscape.  It can either
build, creates the jar file, run the program or create a distribution file.
It has been tested on Mac, Windows, Linux and it seems to work fine.  There
is a refactoring perl script to rearrange the CVS repository on the server
to the new directory structure on our decided switch date. The current plan
is for everyone to check in all of their current code on a specific data,
run perl refactoring script on the CVS server, then everyone must check out
a fresh copy of the cytoscape from CVS and use that from that point on.  The
Perl refactoring script will be run on a copy of the current cvsdir2 (called
cvsdir4) at the specified date/time, at which point everyone must switch to
using cvsdir4 as the current repository.  Cvsdir2 will still exist as a
backup.

There was a question about the status of Andrew's refactoring code.  Since
Andrew had a bike accident, and is recuperating (Get well soon!).  We will
find out the status of this code once he returns.  Because of this, we are
pushing the CVS refactoring date to next Wednesday (tentatively) and will
finalize this date on the list.

Paul mentions that he has accumulated a lot of small changes in the past few
weeks, which might break the build.  So people should build from a fresh
copy, to test that they're not breaking the build.  If you know you're going
to break the build, maybe you should move those changes over manually later.

Trey asked for an overview of the new directory structure.  Ethan replied
that all source files are now in src, new dir called lib will contain all
jar files, a config directory wil contain all configuration files, doc was
changed to user_docs because it contains user documentation.  This will
hopefully make it easier to find things, run ant scripts and use existing
Java IDEs. 

Plugins are all their own projects, so will not be affected by this CVS
refactoring.  Later, Ethan will create some template ant scripts for plugins
that take care of the obfuscation step that people can copy for their own
plugins if they need to.

There were some problems with ANT. Jonathan mentioned that it was hard to
install.  This is because ANT buries its install documentation deeply.
Ethan dug out the install file and sent it to the cytoscape list.  Rowan
suggested that you can have a build script that runs ant to make thing more
convenient.

Rowan asked about the final location of the CVS server.  It would be nice to
have all developer services on the same machine e.g. Maven, bug tracker,
CVS, CVSWeb, documentation, etc.  This way the site could be auto-generated
regularly and all docs, etc. would always be up to date.  This topic was
postponed for future discussion because so far the new CVS server at Trey's
lab works fine.

Vizmapper bug

With the new build, new visualization mappers all show as default.   Larissa
tried a fresh checkout and built it with make and it still seemed to be a
bug.  Basically, there seem to be some technical problems with changing
vizmappers.  Jonathan suggests it may be related to the order of the classes
of the vizmapper called in CytoscapeWindow.  Paul and Larissa will check
their respective files to see if they can see anything obvious.

Bug tracker

Benno likes the bug tracking site.  Comments: Rowan would like e-mail
notification.  This is a user preference, so you can change this to suit
your needs.  The default is to e-mail, but Ethan and Gary will double check
to make sure this works. Rowan would like a way to assign a bug to a group.
This is not available in Mantis.  Benno suggests that the owner should deal
with the bug and if they find it is not in their code, then they can contact
the code owner and reassign the bug.

The method for assigning bugs should be: People claim them if they're
interested, otherwise, we can decide about ownership for all open bugs at
the weekly meetings.

It would be nice to have some level of  public access to the bug tracker.
Right now, anyone can sign up and they become a reporter so they can report
bugs.  Anyone on the Cytoscape team will be upgraded to developer, which
means they can assign bugs to people, etc.  If you want more privileges if
you find you need to do something you can't, Ethan will be happy to change
your account status.

We should have read only access to the bugs for users to check before they
report.  Currently, the system is not set up like this, but Ethan and Gary
can look into this.

We decided that we should make a link from the main web page to the bug
tracker, just like many other open source projects.  E.g. Jonathan mentioned
that Bugzilla is completely open

Tentative dates for Cytoscape meeting - Aug28 (travel), Full day on
29th-Aug30 (social outing).  We should invite the Osprey and SBML people.
Gary will ask the Osprey guys if they're interested.  The Seattle folks will
ask the SBMLers that they know.
We need to check these dates with Chris Workman over e-mail.
cworkman@bioeng.ucsd.edu

Trey notes that Chris needs to be signed up to the cytostaff list.

