Cytoscape Meeting Minutes:  April 15, 2004
Present:  Benno, Trey, Iliana, Andrew, Rowan, Ethan, Rob

Agenda Items:
----------------------
0.  Welcome back to Benno (all the way from Paris!)

1.  Anonymous CVS Access

Rowan would like outsiders to be able to do anonymous CVS checkouts.
There was general agreement that this would be a good idea.  Trey will
look into it and discuss with Chris, and report back to the entire group.

2.  Cytoscape Release / API Discussion

The problem, as seen from a Cytoscape PlugIn writer (as defined in Rowan's
email):  1)  maintenance; 2) backward compatilbility; 3)  reducing the
number of classes that a plugin writer needs to deal with;  4)  stability
of API.

Anrew:  Everything in the Cytoscape API is currently public, nothing is
protected.  PlugIn writers have access to everything.

Benno:  What do other groups do?  Rowan indicated that Adobe solicits
feedback from plugin writers, and tries to solicit feedback before major
changes.

Iliana urged us to create well-defined interfaces -- plugin writers only
write to interfaces.  Implementations are hidden.  Rowan has already
started writing some interfaces.

Trey:  Cyto 2.0 will be a beta for several months.  We can release a beta
version now, but clearly indicate that the API is still in flux.

Benno:  How about we offer two versions of the API:  1)  a stable set of
interfaces, and 2)  we still allow plugin writers to access internal
classes.  Interfaces are stable;  other classes are not necessarily
stable.

Rowan:  all interfaces should be in the main cytoscape package.

Ethan: let's proceed with the release.  We have momementum, and it may
take a long time to finalize the interface API.  If we introduce major
changes now, we may inadvertently break bugs which have been resolved over
the past few months.

Iliana:  What's the rush?  People will pay the most attention to our first
release.  We want to get the API stabilized before releasing it, and get
it right.  If we are very eager to show progress, we could make a web site
with screenshots.

Andrew:  Lots of people are eager to try out Cytoscape 2.0.  We have
promised them a release in Feb, March, and now April.  At some point, we
need to show them we have made real progress.

Trey:  let's spend two weeks on interface design.

***Final Decision***
1.  Do Alpha release Friday 4/16 with disclaimer that API is in flux.

We will use the following disclaimer:

DISCLAIMER FOR PLUG-IN DEVELOPERS:  The Application Programmer's
Interface (API) for Cytoscape Version 2.0Alpha1 is currently under
revision.  Accordingly, we currently do not recommend writing Cytoscape
plug-ins against this API.  We expect the API to stabilize as of the
next code release.

2.  Work on interfaces over next 2-3 weeks.  Continue interface discussion
on mailing list.

3.  Ethan to modify the cytoscape.org web site; Andrew has some content,
and will email it to Ethan.

Rob:  we should do a tag of this release in cvs;  Cytoscape 2.0 alpha1
release.

Trey will check in the JActive Module plugin for the alpha release.

----  Meeting adjourned....


---------------------------------------
Computational Biology Center
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
http://cbio.mskcc.org
Email:  cerami@cbio.mskcc.org
Direct phone:  (646) 735-8082
----------------------------------------

