Hi,
        Here are the notes from Friday's meeting.  Please let me know about changes
or additions.
-Gary

Minutes for Cytoscape conference call Jan.10.2003:

Participants:
Andrew Markiel
Benno Schwikowski
Chris Sander
Gary Bader
Trey Ideker

1. Discuss Cytoscape?s use as an annotation tool. I.e. people can use the
tool to annotate and exchange their own data sets using Java Webstart.  This
is similar to ideas from GenMAPP.  This topic was postponed until more work
has been done thinking about this.

2. Grants

Available grants so far:
Benno mentioned a grant for software development (referred from ISB people
including Nat Goodman) from the National Center for Research Resources
http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/guide/pa-files/PA-02-141.html

This grant is a continuing program until 2005.  Deadlines are Feb.1, Jun.1,
fall
R01 scheme ? max 500k/year
Next task is to contact program officer for the grant.

Chris voiced concern that this grant seems narrow, might be useful, but
might want to have a grant to develop a broader community around the tool
and collaborative research for pathways.

Trey mentioned that the grant should support a database backend.

Benno mentioned the possibility of grants for a biological problem which
Cytoscape could be coupled with.

Summary of grant types:
3 types of grants:
1.      Software grant ? purely for software development
2.      Couple with a biological problem grant
3.      Cytoscape as part of a community with associated database grant

Action items:
?       Benno ? talk to Nat Goodman and program officer and ask people who have
submitted applications under the above grant
?       Trey ? talk to Whitehead grants office
?       Gary ? talk to MSKCC grants office
?       Chris ? Call Jim Cassat at NIH and John Houghton at DOE
?       E-mail each other with first round of grant research by Fri.Jan.17th

Ballpark estimates of required funds:
Just software: 600-700k
Other grants: 500k to 1.5 million depending on scope
A large NIGMS glue grant would be very ambitious but could bundle whole
pathway community in with this and tie into AfCS.  E.g. AfCS is a large glue
grant with 100s of participants funded at a level of 10 million/year (5
million/year from NIGMS) over 10 years.

Initial grant proposal could have the following:
Executive summary:

Keywords:

Aims:

Abstract:

Details:

Vocabulary associated with Cytoscape grant proposals:
?       Project is open-source
?       Multi-institute collaboration
?       People are using the software
?       3-4 publications that have used this software
?       There is a manuscript describing the software
?       Software is not sufficiently funded
?       Software creates a collaborative framework i.e. people can add and share
plugins as software modules
?       Software could become a standard for communication for collaborative
interaction
?       Software could unify community around a core tool that us an extensible
framework that can be added to by the community (open-source).
?       Software is a tool for integrating heterogeneous data sets
?       Software needs a database backend to support analysis of increased amount
and types of data as well as for communicating data within collaborative
groups
?       The data sets currently being integrated include genomics and proteomics
(molecular interactions, transcriptional profiling, genetic interactions),
thus are being generated at a very high rate.  These new high data rate
fields are lacking in analysis tools and Cytoscape fills this need.
Cytoscape could be the next generation of bioinformatics software for this
data.
?       Human genome aspect: Finished genomes add completeness (an additional
quality of a data set).  Thus a tool that deals with a complete data set
allows analysis across entire set and make stronger conclusions.

To ensure that we have something within 2-3 months, the focus of the above
is that Cytoscape is a collaborative, community based, open source effort to
develop software for integrated analysis of important new data sets.

We may be able to solicit letters of support from e.g.:
-AfCS
-SBML
-BioPathways
-BioPAX
-PSI
