Cytoscape weekly meeting notes June 24, 2004
Scribe: Trey Ideker

1) Gary talks about Windows-related issues.

There are several Win-specific bugs that Gary has registered in the
bug tracker:

   * Export options work under "Default look and feel" but not under others
   * Problem with VizMapper showing colors
   * Suggests removing the %CLASSPATH entry from the distributed .bat file

2) Biodataserver naming issues, discussion led by Rowan

Discussion about how to load multiple species per biodataserver.  Andrew
explains how to do this.

We agree that there will need to be a major overhaul of the BDS.  Trey
volunteers his group to do this starting this summer.  This will aim
to resolve a number of issues including canonical naming.

The other problem is having to load too many files (sif, node attrs, 
edge attrs)
to start a cytoscape working session.  A possible solution to this
is the "project" file idea. Cytoscape currently supports this via something
Paul has implemented. Rowan will look into this over the next week,
update it to support multiple sifs/gmls, and provide a project file
plug-in.

3) September Cytoscape conference update by Gary
Shankar will tentatively be there.
States not replied.
Blanchard will be there.
Conklin will send a postdoc.
Shamir can't make it.
Tyers may send someone from his group.
Hogue may send someone from his group.
Califano from Columbia will be there.
Eric Steffan from PNNL not replied.
SDSC not replied.

UCSD: Trey will come plus two.
ISB: Hamid and Rowan plus one other.
Pasteur: Benno will likely come plus one other.
MSK: Will have 4-5 there.

4) Bug tracking update by Gary
Gary has organized all of the bug reports and ranked them by his
assessment of their priority.  In particular, he has marked those
bugs that he views as critical to resolve before the upcoming
release. 

5) Release timeline
Will touch base next week to solidfy the timeline, but would
definitely want to release by ISMB.  Rowan mentions we should
coordinate with the release of the new website.

