Cytoscape meeting 06/26/03

 

Present: Gary, Ethan, Benno, Andrew, Larissa, Iliana, Rowan

 

Graph Library Update (Rowan) 
Refactoring update (Andrew) 
Data services update (Ethan) 
 

CVS sever status? Right now we don’t have CVS server so people don’t check files in.

Hopefully in the middle of July we will have it back on Trey’s side. 

Benno is going to call Trey and send us an e-mail update on that regard.

 

Public Graph Library Implementation.  Some problems evolved so Rowan et al. hade to come up with the new design for node/edge instantiation. 
That slowed down implementation, but the new design will work better for the large graphs and subgraphs.

 

Rowan is looking in to the graph layout algorithms implementation that Fedor Kolpakov (BIO UML) wrote, and probably will include that to our graph library

(as a standout library).  So, before creating new layout algorithms, we should coordinate, so there will be compatible way to do layouts.

 

Question: Will be there a GML writer/reader in the new graph library.  We will have to write our own GML writer/reader instead of y.files one. May be we should have same 

standart of reading GML data from file or URL as the Data Services do. Also we should include more visual information in our GML reader.

How much work is to create a GML reader? Rowan will look in to it, may be search for an open source GML parser on the web and update us on that.

 

 

Benno met with y-files guys and talked about the licensing of y-files and the Cytoscape distribution. There should not be any licensing issues because 

we are planning to distribute only open source graph library, and if a user wants to use y files he/she will have to buy a copy.

Why would one want to use y-files over public graph? It could be faster, or better functionality, or more convenient, or they already wrote some plugin code with y-files 

and used to it… 

 

The goal is to make public graph library better and more flexible than y-files….

Ask Rowan if you want to have more info on the new graph package.

 

Refactoring. 
Refactoring of the core is going very well. Andrew is slicing the CytoscapeWindow class and not changing anything else right now.

The CytoscapeWindow is now ½ of it’s original size and a lot of the code is redirected to another modules. In a couple of days we will be done with this phase and will move in to creating new

CytoscapeNetwork and other classes.

 

Data Services. 0.02 Beta version is available for download. It reads PSI (xml) file from local file or url. Phase 2 is completed. 
Now the plan is: 1.)to refactor the code a little to make a plugin stretcher, so people could write their

      own data services as plugins. 2.)add other  formats of data by creating another data service. 

 

Benno rises the question about dealing with synonyms (canonicalization and identifiers, name resolution). In fact it is a big problem and is solved for the yeast but not for everything else.

There are several solutions out there (“Match Maker”, “Gem Card” web services) and we will evaluate them. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
