Present:

Whitehead: Owen
ISB: Benno, Paul, Andrew, Iliana
MSKCC: Gary, Ethan

Minutes: Owen


1. database direction (paul)

Gary and Ethan begin, at Paul's request.
First contribution: building database support into cytoscape.
getting people's input, to assemble a spec document (which
Gary will maintain).  A layer that understands database sources,
remote or local, etc.

Databases of "parts" - proteins, dna's, small molecules
Databases of rel'shps of parts - interaction data
Attributes of parts fall into the parts database.
sequence, structure, GO terms, etc.  optional loads.

This would all start as a plug-in, of course.

Paul sees data *sources* as more general than databases.
(flat files, for example.  real-time calculations, too.)

Gary to send kick-off email.


2. lots of tabs / matrix attributes (owen)

Ruedi's protein data may come out.
p-vals, mrna levels, protein concen, etc.

perhaps an n-dimensional matrix is in order?
perhaps just 2 or 3d.  either way, let's start
it as a plugin.


3. various visual mapping stuff (andrew)

i)  visual styles - wrapping everything into one obj
    that you can carry around, made changes necessary,
    lobby for owen or jonathan to add to UI ability
    to pick a different visual style.

andrew says it should now read background color from
vizmap.props, too.

ii) tutorial - first draft is ready!
    owen will send andrew the cytoscape.jar that has
    a recent version of the visual mapper.

iii)somebody needs to put the GPL headers in everywhere.


4. schedule on out of yFiles and refactoring (paul)
running late, there's a course being taught by Ruedi
about the proteomics pipeline.  Cytoscape is going to
be the last day of that.  DIP network of human proteins.
Paul was going to start refactoring April 1 and go for
two months, but it looks like start May 1 and going for
maybe 6 weeks.

Rowan: designing abstraction layer with Paul.
It will all be plug-replacable soon.  Rowan has done a
lot of good stuff in that vein already.

nail down API by May 1?  Paul will own the document.

Tomorrow: Larissa Kamenkovich joins the team!
Part time on Cytoscape.

Ethan asks what the refactoring consists of?
Paul replies, yFiles replacement and (basically)
CytoscapeWindow restructuring.
no document needed as yet.


5. util directory (iliana)
General use classes.  SwingWorker, for example.
should this directory move to the core?

csplugins is good, because plugin writers can
add to it, rather than core writer.

of course, a commonly used utility will often
have biological semantics, and if we decide to
put common utilities in the core.

andrew brings up jEdit plugin model;
dependencies are checked and resolved.
Benno suggests looking into the possibilities.

if we have a common utils dir, it needs structure,
says Gary.  everyone agrees.


6. owen points out june 1 thing.
The Whitehead side of the Cytoscape project will probably
shut down around June 1, so at the very least, we'll need
to host CVS from somewhere else right around then.

is sourceforge tenable?
maybe a server at the ISB or at MSKCC?
either way.

probably beginning of May is a good timeframe.
Paul will look into it.

