Participants: Iliana, Ethan, Gary, Rob, Chris, Iliana, Rowan, Andrew, Ryan

Bugs:
1. Vizmapper bug and giny height/width bug - This may be a bug combination -
Ethan and Rowan will coordinate to fix this.
2. Node selection bug is really a menu bug - current work around is to
reselect 'select nodes' in selection menu.
3. Make sure Rob is testing 3 ways of loading plugins - props loading is
used in webstart, command line and menu loading.  Plugins loaded from the
command line do not always appear in new windows.
4. Variable zooming - left-right mouse movement zooms in and out.
5. Hiding question from an earlier call - Rowan and Ryan will coordinate to
deal with this.
6. Greying out of save menu doesn't work when a plugin creates nodes.  This
is related to a deeper issue regarding stability of core graph data objects
such as the rootgraph and graph perspective when new graphs are loaded.
	Two features are currently affected by this.
1.	Graying out menus is implemented using listeners, but these can be
lost.
2.	plugins can lose a reference to the current graph (root or
perspective). This can cause loss of data integrity in the plugins and
memory leaks.

Resolution: Andrew will look into this to see how to fix this and report
back to the group.  It might be a major fix.  In the meantime, we should
move features that depend on it to a post 2.0 release e.g. menu graying out
and node selections on empty graphs, etc.

Getting to the next release candidate: Andrew will go through the remaining
bugs sometime this week to see which ones absolutely need to be fixed and
suggest the next release date for testing and closing many of the resolved
bugs.

Vizmap proposal from Ethan - We should have a new visual mapper props file
that matches a simple tutorial in the manual.  This is a good idea.  Iliana
suggested that the default visual mapper values should be the easiest things
to render so that the graph loads faster up front.

Report on the Osprey visit:
The Osprey team are going to start writing some Cytoscape plugins to get the
hang of things.  They will hopefully start writing their layouts as
Cytoscape plugins.
They will write a file format converter for graph and layout information.
They will look into connecting GRID and Cobra (annotations database) to
Cytoscape.



