Conference call: 5pm.Feb.5.2004
Andrea, Larissa, Rowan, Benno, Iliana, Trey, Chris, Ethan, Rob, Gary

1. Collaboration - Ron Shamir - we think he'd like to work on Cytoscape, but
we're still waiting to hear back from him.
2. Cytoscape status.

The following features are to be shipped in v2.0:
-Layout algorithm picking (Rowan):  Pick a slow and a fast force-directed
algorithm and present these to the users as 'slow' and 'fast' menu items in
the Layout menu.  Slow one will likely be Kamada-Kawai (SpringEmbedder),
fast one yet to be chosen.  Extras: we should try to do easy optimizations
on the code (low hanging fruit).  Heavy optimizations can wait.
Time estimate: 1 week.

-Hierarchy layout (Rob): A basic feature hierarchical layout is being built
for v2.0 with extended features to be added later.  Rowan expressed interest
in using the connected component detection code, if it was available, for
use in other layout algorithms, although this can wait until after v2.0
Estimate: layer assignment: this week, next steps and link with giny: next
week.  

-Read only / edit-delete (Rowan):  There are problems with creating nodes
since you need to implement a UI for node attribute creation and letting the
user create nodes without the proper attributes can sometimes wreck
algorithms that expect certain attributes. So we will leave node creation
until later.  Deleting nodes doesn't have this problem and should be
implemented in the node context sensitive menu of the node.  Extras: other
features of the context sensitive node menu are useful for groups of
selected nodes - this may be implemented for v2.0.  Generally we would like
to have Cytoscape be WYSIWYG, so deleting a node should mean it is really
deleted (not hidden).  Implementation may vary on this to support future
undo features, etc.

-GML reading (Chris):  Revisit this issue from last week.  Issue: Putting
view info into the graph view doesn't allow you to keep them around
(vizmapper overwrites it).  Solution: store layout and view information from
the GML file in a GraphObjAttributes type object that only stores layout and
view information (not the main GraphObjAttributes object for other node
objects).  Extras: put a GML option in the layout menu to layout how the GML
file specifies (info will be read from special layout GraphObjAttributes
instance).
Timeline: 1 week (including GML writer)

-Sif files - Any changes to the file format will be left until after 2.0

-Icons (Rowan) - They look cool, but we should redo all the icons.  They are
similar to the mozilla Firebird look.

-Java 1.5 support.  Because it's new and also because Mac won't support it,
probably not a good idea to only support it, but let's do a dual release -
both 1.4 and 1.5 versions for v2.0.  One source code change in JarLoader
needs to be made in code for 1.5 support (Rowan)

-Documentation, API
-Source code level documentation will not be changed.
-User guide (Ethan) - PDF will be updated.
-Plugin writer targeted Javadoc.  Plugin writers only need a small part of
Cytoscape API for common operations, Rowan suggests we have this option for
creating Javadoc (Gary suggests adding another target in the ant build
file).  These source code directories are:
Cytoscape, Cytoscape/data, Cytoscape/view
-Let's put all documentation in one place on Cytoscape.org

-Filters (Rowan): we will ship this feature as a plugin for v2.0

-Custom node shapes not working (Andrew, Rowan, Larissa) - nice to have as a
plugin - ship for 2.0.

Bugs, features:
New v2.0 bug category for reporting pre-release v2.0 specific bugs.


