meeting minutes, 17 april 2003

Transcribed by Andrew Markiel

Cytoscape meeting minutes for Thursday, April 17, 2003

Present: Andrew, Paul, Owen, Gary


1. Owen thanks Andrew for answering bugs effectively.


2. ActiveModules

Recurring bug noted with ActiveModules compiled with Java 1.4.0 and
not working with Java 1.4.1, triggering the recurring thought of
ActiveModules rewritten in Java. The key issues are who would
rewrite it, and would it be fast enough. In the meantime, we
agree to rebuild ActiveModules with 1.4.1 in the next release,
which should go out as soon as the current set of known bugs
is squashed.

It was mentioned that the splash screen needs some fixing before
the next release, per recent emails. No additional details.

Discussion of running ActiveModules via Java Web Start. The key
problem is getting Web Start to find the ActiveModules library.
Paul will look into this.


3. new data from Paul

We now have available ~90 reference networks of KEGG pathways
in SBML format. Paul has taken these and created Cytoscape networks
from them, and now wonders how to distribute these. Issues include
distribution of the files themselves, as well as a naming problem.
An extended discussion ensued that I didn't really follow (perhaps
Paul can send out an update once he's made more progress).

It was noted that RefSeq ID numbers are some of the best unique
naming schemes around. Someone also presented a tool called
MatcMiner in a recent Genome Research article, Gary will send
more information on this. Gary notes that everyone knows there
is a big naming problem in biology and no one has done a really
good job of solving it, although many are interested.

On a related note, a network of interaction from Bind will likely
be available this summer.


4. Expression data in Cytoscape is now visualized by copying the
data into node attributes and using the new vizmapper, so the old
ExpressionDataUI plugin is no longer needed.


5. Progress on changing Cytoscape's Graph usage: Andrew sent out
a request for desired features from a graph package and received
responses, which will be summarized in a later email. Reviews of
JGraph have been generally negative, leaving yFiles and PGraph
(Rowan's wrapper around the Piccolo framework) as the leading
candidates. Iliana and Rowan are working on getting timing
information for doing operations on a large graph in each of the
two packages. The current vision seems to be converging on a
graph interface with yFiles and pGraph implementations, leaving
open the possibility of grafting in a new package while giving
us a better idea of what that interface layer should look like.


6. Various meetings with people from SBW have occured/will occur
in the near future. There is interest in linking Cytoscape to the
SBW framework so that Cytoscape can talk to other SBW modules.
Other issues may come up as this effort moves forward.


7. Gary has set up a demo version of a project management web site,
and sent out the link for people to review.

