Minutes: Owen

1. Old visualization
   owen reports progress; it may not be finished in
   a releasable state before the new visualization is
   ready, but have a look anyway, because it is an
   indicator of what is to come.  besides that, it's
   useful.  owen will send out email (done)

2. New visualization
   Andrew has led the effort to redesign the vizmapper,
   and he has coded it himself.  This work is very far
   along; most classes are written, the only things
   that remain are cytoscape.props writing and reading,
   as well as UI's (which owen will be involved in).

   The design includes a catalog of mappers (henceforth,
   "calculators") which calculate values of visual
   attributes based on values of node and edge attrib's,
   as well as perhaps the graph.  paul's suggestion of
   the "Network" object consisting of the graph and the
   attributes is the input to a calculator.  the calc's
   keep track of which attrib(s) they are mapping from.

3. sourceforge
   Paul has forged ahead, so to speak, and the core is up
   as "org.cytoscape.core" as discussed.  the web ui to
   cvs is not up by default, and paul indicates it will
   take a little while before we're ready to use it.  Gary
   offers assistance.

(intermezzo: benno mentions the possibility of jGraph and
   piccolo.  these are great, because they would mean no
   code obfuscation and anyone can write a plugin.  the
   drawback is development time to make one of these free
   alternatives to yFiles meet the same API as yFiles does,
   at least to the extent that we use it.)

4. UndoableGraphHider
   Iliana discusses the slowness that users are experiencing,
   and we conclude that the best short-term fix is a mod to
   the UndoableGraphHider that allows two constructors, one
   which preserves undoability and the other which does not.
   The cytoscape.props file would control whether your window
   has the undo feature.  Longer term, we should make undo
   work better.

   Andrew says he'll look at it in the next couple of days,
   and either succeed at this change, or report some kind of
   problem with succeeding.

5. a good online demo
   Paul asks that we think of data sets and cytoscape
   walk-throughs that would make good javastart intro's.

6. database plugin
   This seems like a good idea; Paul has already
   implemented something related to this and the SBW;
   gary and paul will talk offline about it. (sorry, my
   notes aren't very good here)

7. bug doug
   Owen reports that he doesn't know what's wrong with doug
   and the bug.  Doug has redhat 8, and owen has tried it
   with redhat 8, but not reproducing the bug. owen asks
   for ideas, and Paul suggests the JVM version.
   (epilogue: owen emails doug, doug replies that the JVM
    version is 1.4.1; owen installs 1.4.1 and replicates
    the crash.  owen tells doug to use 1.4.0, as per the
    cytoscape webpage.)

8. West Coast Downloads
   progress is underway; gary offers a second east coast
   site, and it sounds like a good idea, so owen emails
   gary the scripts and pertinent HTML.

that's the news.

