Meeting Minutes:  9/25/03

Attending:  Paul, Andrew, Larisa, Iliana, Rowan, Phil, Ethan, Chris

Bugs:
1.  We Discussed bugs #62 and #63.  These are now fixed.
2.  Chris found a new bug in the VizMapper.  He'll log it to Mantis today.

GINY:
We spent the bulk of the meeting discussing Larissa's emailed proposal
regarding GINY implementation.  There was no clear consensus or decision.

A summary of Larisa's proposal, from her email:

"I am proposing, instead of replacement of the graph library, to add a new
graph library support to Cytoscape without taking away y-files (for a
period of time). There is no reason why Cytoscape cannot support both
y-files and giny for a while. I suggest leaving all the y-files
implementation in the Cytoscape untouched and add giny implementation to
the Cytoscape parallel to the y-files. We will have both giny and y-files
jar files on the classpath and will be able to choose if we want to run
Cytoscape using giny or y-files through the simple command line option. If
we want to run y-files then we call in CytoscapeWindow constructor that
accepts y.base.Graph, and all works exactly as it used to be with
y-files."

Paul expressed that he did not like the idea.  He stated that it would
likely require a lot more additional code, and that it's not a very
effective way of getting where we want to go.  Mixing Y-Files and GINY may
be impractical.  He also suggested that we have a collective leadership
problem with Cytoscape, e.g. no clear leader(s) to make this decision, and
that we had no clear mechanism to make a decision on this.

Rowan expressed that he thinks the Y-Files wrapper is almost done.  And,
while he thought Larissa's proposal would work, he also thought the
original plan would probably work as well.

Chris expressed that any loss of functionality is not good.  In porting to
GINY, we should not lose any user functionality.

In the end, Rowan and Larissa decided to think about things some more, and
report back on their decision.

CVS Directories
---------------
Can we separate csplugins from core?  Where do we check in plugins?

**** A DECISION ****
All csplugins should go in cvsdir4.  Don't put 'em any where else!

Refactoring Work
-----------------
1.  Andrew has found about 70 classes that have references to
CytocapeWindow;  He is refactoring these, and the list of classes is now
down to 35.
2.  more documentation needs to be done.  Andrew's working on this.


