Cytoscape meeting minutes for March 13, 2003

Present:

Whitehead: Owen
MSKCC: Gary, Ethan
ISB: Benno, Paul, Andrew

minutes: Andrew

Agenda items:

0. personnel changes
1. new web release fixing earlier listakes
2. jar loader
3. obfuscated jars
4. renaming of cytoscape packages
5. vizmapper completeness
6. other issues


0. personnel

Ethan is a new programmer in Gary's group: welcome to the group!
Also, Owen notes that Trey is planning to move to San Diego around
June, at which point Owen will cease to work on the project. Thanks
to Owen for all his hard work so far, and best of luck on new
endeavors.

2. new web release

Owen made a few mistakes in the initial release of Cytoscape to the
web last week. These included a file permission error and some
malformed references to directories available to Owen but not to
the generic user. These errors have been fixed and a new version
uploaded; Gary has installed the new version on his site and Paul
will do so soon. We agree to send a suitable email to the ~dozen
people who downloaded the new version and provide fixed versions
of the affected files. For the future, will try to have more testing
of the release before making it truly publicly available; Owen
agrees to test on a completely separate machine from his normal
work, and if possible others can also test the new version.

3. jar loader

Owen has made great progress on loading plugins from jars, and
we agreed to move the functionality of his plugin into the core.
An extended discussion ensued over how to load and activate
plugins. Issues include which plugins to load at startup by
default; how to change that; how to handle conditional loading
(i.e., checking for needed data); how to grab and activate new
plugins.

The general scheme is to have a plugin manager that knows where
to find plugins. These include an index on the web site that lists
the known plugins, and a local repository of plugins that the
user has downloaded. This manager should allow the user to browse
the plugins that exist, download on demand, and control the list
of plugins to activate on startup. The implementation of all this
remains to be determined.

4. obfuscated jars

Owen figured out how to obfuscate a jar which is separate from
the cytoscape jar, but allow them to work together by having the
same obfuscation. The trick is that the obfuscator (RetroGuard)
saves the obfuscation table when it runs. Then, when you get a
new jar you want to obfuscate the same way, you combine the
classes in the new jar with the unobfuscated cytoscape core
classes, and obfuscate the whole thing using the saved table.
Then you can extract the new (now obfuscated) classes from that
combined jar and put only the new classes in a separate jar, and
use that separate jar with the originally obfuscated cytoscape jar.
We're all impressed that Owen worked all this out.

On a related note, Paul will meet later today with Rowan for an
update on the progress on an open-source yFiles replacement. The
suggestion is that we could remove yFiles from the Cytoscape core
and replace it with this open-source version to represent the
core graph structures, and then supply yFiles graph operations
via obfuscated plugins that convert between the open source and
yFiles graph format and run the yFiles algorithms on suitably
converted versions. This would allow access to yFiles operations
without requiring plugin writers to have a yFiles license. Note
that such plugins could only allow prepackaged yFiles operations,
and not calls to the yFiles API.

4. package renaming

Currently the Cytoscape packages are referrred to by the "common names"
of cytoscape and csplugins. Owen notes that the "canonical names"
would be org.cytoscape.core and org.cytoscape.csplugins, and suggests
doing the renaming by applying a suitably complex script to change
the package names in the classes, the import statements, and the
references in the makefiles. Paul passionately argues for doing
this in conjunction with the upcoming refactoring of the core, and
the motion passes.

5. completing the vizmapper

Paul notes that the code for the vizmapper is complete, but there
is currently no documentation or tutorials for it, and no
suitable defaults. Owen points out that he actually did a lot of
work to create suitable predefined calculators and a sensible
set of defaults. Owen and Paul agreed to grab a fresh version of
the code and see what is actually there by default. Andrew is
currently working on a manual/tutorial for the vizmapper which
should be ready by next week. (Later note: Iliana requests
documentation for plugin writers in addition to documentation
for using the user interface to the vizmapper).


6. Other issues:

A report surfaces that Java 1.4.1 for Mac is out. Paul agrees to
look into this. If true we should add instructions for Mac users
to the manual next to the unix/windows instructions.

It's agreed that the minutes of the meetings should be archived
on the web site. Andrew agrees to check with Owen soon on this.

Post-meeting note: Benno and Hamid at ISB are currently seeking
to hire a person who would work ~6 months over the next year on
Cytoscape, principally on web site/tutorials/help/documentation,
possibly additionally on user interface improvements. Candidates
were interviewed this week, and a hire should be authorized
shortly.
