Minutes for Cytoscape conference call Thursday, August 12, 2004

Attendance:
Trey, Chris W., Gary, Ethan, Rowan

Rowan, Iliana and others used Cytoscape 2.0 at a recent ISB course
(proteomics and systems biology).  User feedback: using GO annotation was
hard, filters were confusing to explain, but usable by some people, node
browser was a little confusing initially.  Proposed solutions for GO
annotation are to look at how other software does it e.g. GOMiner, and have
a window available to show node attributes (like Osprey).  We should talk
more about this at the retreat.

Retreat update: 33 participants total now.  We have 2 conference rooms
booked here that should be able to hold everyone.  We should prepare some
ideas for feature prioritization and send any more agenda items to Gary.
Gary will update this week and send out a more detailed schedule.  We have a
room booked at Cornell medical center for a public Cytoscape tutorial: We
should have someone give a scientific intro and then have a hands on
tutorial (Rowan and Iliana have tutorial material prepared).  This is still
open for discussion, since people won't have laptops, it may make more sense
to just have a regular scientific talk with a short tutorial as a follow-on.

Core group dinner on Tuesday night - let Gary know your flight schedules so
we can plan the dinner.  Main dinner will be held on Wednesday night.

A Hackathon e-mail will be sent out to hackathon participants - Rowan and
Chris will organize.

ISMB report.  Lots of Cytoscape interest. Jens Rick from Cellzome wants to
donate some 3D network browser code.  Oracle and some other companies want
to write Cytoscape plugsins. Cytoscape presentation went well, we should
have a slide repository on the web somewhere where we can share slides.

Recent hiring - Trey's two new people will start in 1.5 weeks.  Mark
Anderson worked in Java at Sun.  Nerius Landys has a CS degree from Berkeley
and Java experience from a dot-com.

Unilever is paying for one programmer in Trey's group.  They're UK based and
need to look at computer tools to avoid animal testing of cosmetic products.


