New website looks great - we are assuming the way it is on /new is the
version to push to the sebsite. The old site is not checked in,
but it will be moved to a separate backup directory.

Will there be mirror sites for releases? Not for now, but planning ahead
in case we choose to mirror.

PNAS publication, Paul Shannon publication ... can be added to "why you
want to use cytoscape topic" References to be sent to Ethan. Top
ones shown on webpage with "more.." link to rest.

Add to website: List of sponsors, list of collaborators. (Community).

Website pages checked into CVS in new root directory. Ant script 
modified
to deploy website (ant deploy)

Website idea: a "mail-to" link that people could click on to inform us
of publications and work related to cytoscape.

Do we store license agreement info? Yes. Not sure what we are doing with
it yet.

Google groups: Evaluated new google groups for mailing lists. Easy to
make public, search, archive. cytoscape-announce cytocape-discuss
cytoscape-dev. We plan to move to these mailing lists gradually.
Also, everything sent to cytoscape-announce will appear in blue
"cytoscape news" box on first page. Also all discuss items will
be publicly visible.

Cytoscape code - all code checked in except one Visual Style fix to be
checked in later by Rowan. (And email to Ethan for Tag/Build)

Today:
- tag release
- push release content onto /new website (including mac release, install
         anywhere)
- test for a day or two
- redirect /new to be the actual website
- archve old website

Gary: online tutorials will be updated slightly (website)
         User manual has been updated and is available -- any corrections
         could be made now before release; take a look.
Will replace "Online Tutorial blue nav box on website with DevTeam"

Nice to get automated frequenct point releases. (user access to
development code). We will have a separate website to allow users to
download the latest development code (with warnings) But also, we
would like to have a schedule of "official" point releases where we
can schedule feature releases into. Ideas need to be hashed out later
(maybe at retreat)

Hack-a-thon during retreat - Rowan, Ethan, Rob, Illiana (if before), ..
schedule 2 days before. Trey will be able to fund 3 people from each
institution (tranport), and some set up for hotels, meals, etc.. Trey
sending 4 people: Ryan, Chris, new guy, Nariad(?). Gary will find out
more about hotel rooms, and occupancy policies and relay info.

Retreat is Wed/Thur. Hackathon on Mon/Tues. For hacking we will plan
on booking conference room downstairs and using wireless laptops. Pre
planning would make the time more efficient. If anyone needs a laptop,
talk to Ethan.

Mac platform has some nice integration support for running cytoscape
(drag and drop/doubleclick .sif / .gml files) Similar behavior on
windows might require some kind of .dll windows programming to do all
the features -- but double click launch is probably good enough.
How about the linux platform? Launching? Every distro different -
probably not worth effort to sort it out.

