Present at the meeting: Benno, Rowan, Larissa, Andrew, Gary, Ethan, 
Trey, Ryan

Agenda:
- Testing 2.0 release.
-Selection based on the attributes.

- We are oficially in a 2.0 testing phase now! Gary is testing vigorosly 
with multiple data sets etc the release that Andrew made early this 
week. Trey also is doing some testing while writing a new plugin. Trey 
submitting his bugs to the bug tracker.
While we are in the testing phase we should be careful about not adding 
new features to the code since last run of the release to avoid some 
areas being untested...
Resolve bug versus close bug... Developer should resolve a bug and the 
tester will verify that the bug is fixed and then close it.

Gary so far found 100+ bugs!  He will put them in to the bug tracker 
within few days and let us know. We will need to do a good 
prioritarization of those bugs and reveal showstoppers for the 2.0 
release.  We need to have a "Bug Master" - a person who will keep  track 
of what bugs are new, unassigned etc.  Andrew was doing it at some 
degree already...

When reporting a bug one should try to keep clear separation between 
Giny and Cytoscape bugs, also some bugs are related to each other, so we 
need to make sure they are assigned to one person to avoid an effort 
duplication.

Assigning a bug, when and who is doing it? When one enters a bug may be 
he can assign it as well?
People who will be working on fixing bugs: Rowan, Andrew, Larissa, may 
be Iliana, Ryan, Chris(gml reader/writer), Jonathan.(vizmapper).

Gary asks if the new code had been profiled? Rowan have done some 
profiling of the vismapper on JProfiling. If you see a slowliness report 
it as a bug and it can be profiled for the optimization.  Most of the 
testing Gary done is in Windows and some is on Mac. Let's make sure we 
test it on LINUX as well...

-  Selection based on the attributes. Ryan wrote 2 additional filters 
for the filters pluguin that would do this functionality.

- Y Files plugin is done and ready for people to use. We will need to 
oubfiscate it and it can be distributed to be used with new
Cytoscape for Y-Files Layouts that are missing right now. Ethan will 
take a look in the oubfiscation process, since it is different from 
regular plugin oubfiscation, when y-files is a part of core a cytoscape.jar.

