Hi guys,
	Here are my notes:

Cytoscape notes - conference call Mar.11.2004

Phil, Larissa, Rowan, Andrew, Trey, Ryan, Chris, Ethan, Rob, Gary, Benno

Agenda:
Bugs!

1. Java printing
Mac and Linux print nicely - Windows doesn't deal with this well.
Rowan will look into Batik SVG toolkit for possible remedy (via Piccolo
list)

2. Context menu for nodes and edges
-Useful names now come up for these
-Web links - don't work on Mozilla
	-SGD is species specific. - Would prefer something more general
(MSKCC is looking into a generic URL database solution)
	-Decision: Drop this from v2.0.  ISB can implement this as a plugin
and provide to users who like this feature.
-Changing color and shape
	-Issue with visual mapper - it is not clear how context sensitive
menu color changes affect the visual mapper.
	-Decision: It is useful in its current state, thus leave it as it is
for now and document that color changes are temporary and are overwritten by
a change in visual styles.
	
Align and distribute
	-Current functionality is fine

3. Node and edge selection
	-Selection is an important issue to get right - we're not sure what
the best way to implement it is.
	-Decision: Let's implement the drag select with modifier keys to
select nodes, edges and both (Trey's idea) to test it out and see how we
like it.

4. Font changes from the vizmapper - Rowan changed this so nodes and edges
have labels and you can change the font through the label.

5. Continuous mapper - breaking it up into classes - and adding tests.  Who
can do code-review?  Andrew will help with this.

Chris will help test the continuous mapper stuff after Ethan checks it in.
Ethan will coordinate with Chris on this.

6. Confusion with two places to change background.
	-Ethan will check in the fix and people can see if the 2 BG change
options work - now that it is synchronized.  Otherwise, we can re-evaluate
this implementation.

7. BDS server loading bug is mostly found and fixed by Ryan

Who can help with bugs?
-Ethan and Rob can have bugs assigned to them - not Gary
-Ryan has a little time to work on bugs, not Chris

We'll prioritize while we're assigning, but Larissa mentioned that we should
deal with more important bugs first.  We can reevaluate our progress on this
next week.



