Present: Benno, Andrew, Rowan, Larissa, Iliana, Phil, Paul, Gary, Ethan, 
Trey, Chris


Agenda:
1) Giny update.
2) Bugs
3) Undo Manager.
4) Core Data Model
5) Grant update


1.)Giny update. Rowan is writing more deprecated classes for Giny. There 
are few left.
 Larissa changed import statements in CVS dir 5 and so far having 100 
errors and 600 warnings.
A lot of errors coming from the classes that we will not immidiately 
support in giny ( Layouts, GML Write/reader etc)
Larissa planning to write stab classes for those to make the code to 
compile. The goal is to have a compilable version of cvs dir5 using giny 
by next Friday.
Meanwhile  we had an additions to our giny test and now customizable 
nodes represent real data, you can load your expression data and view it 
in the star plot
representation. This code is checked in at cvs dir5 under gtest and you 
can check it out.
Rowan is also working on the hierarchical layout and half done, the node 
ranking algorithm is still not implemented.
We will have a Bio Java layout to incorporate in the layouts, donated by 
Antony ??.
The code will be sent to Rowan to evaluate...

What  Chris will work on ? He has a choice of GML reader/writer to use 
with the new graph library, layout algorithms, level of details.
   
Layouts. So what layout will we have? Ideally we would like to release 
new cytoscape with the same set of layouts that y-files provide.
We have spring-embedded and will have hierarchical. Still missing the 
circular (the one that creates circles based on the degree of the node, 
might be tricky to write).

2.) Bugs.

Bug #61 in GML reader assigned to Chris
Bug # 49 node selection causes crach. May be caused by undo manager. 
Trey is going to look to it.
Bug # 60 Cytoscape config test fails in cvs dir 5. Assigned to  Andrew.
Bug 58  Vismapper set default shape node fails. Assigned to Andrew.


3) Undo manager.
Paul proposes to turn off the Undo Manager by default, since it turned 
out to be the significant source of performance problems.
Ethan did some performance tests on Mac and the results show that the 
difference in time running cytoscape with and without Undo Manager is 
significant.
Layouts took 4 times longer with the undo manager on.
We decided to turn the undo manager off in both dir 4 and 5.
Current undo manager is quite intimately involved with y-files events 
and is seems logical to rewrite the undo manager with the use of the new 
graph library.

4) Core Data Model. We have 4 essential attributes rigt now :
-canonical name
-common name
-interaction type (for edges)
- species
We need to decide what kind of assumptions we want to make and how we 
want to implement those assumptions.
Currently we are using canonical names as a key identifiers to retrieve 
attributes and expression data.
We need to agree on the common vocabulary (separate module) so different 
plugins could access the same attribute
using the vocabulary. Each attribute will have a reasonable default value.
We can also use utility functions and indices for the nodes and don't 
care about some of the attributes.
Vocabulary will have a separate API.
The only assumptions is the canonical name or string identifier.
Iliana mentions that we need a database key because the canonical name 
is not unique.
In the future we will access the databases using common vocabulary 
unique identifiers. Data Services importing it from other data models.
We need to make sure we handle nulls properly for species and common names.
Also that would be nice to be able to write the network to a file with 
the data attributes and layouts. May be BioPax can do that?
Not quite...

Benno and Rowan thinking about the way to impone more modular structure 
on Cytoscape, when we will not nesessarily need graph but can load an
expression data and some  nodes (not in a graph context). They will need 
to discuss it farther with Andrew.

5.) Grant update? Trey is gone by now, and we don't have any info on 
grant. Perhaps Trey can send an e-mail on how are thing going.
How is the picture for the cover worked out? We have added some new 
features to the customized nodes, and can send new pictures to Trey if 
ist is not too late...


 



