Minutes for Cytoscape conference call Thursday, July 15, 2004

Attendance:
Rowan, Ethan, Gary, Rob

Agenda:
Release status
Mailing lists
Minimum requirements


Release status
The release is progressing. Gary will be updating the web starts, signing
them with our Verisign certificate (they will have to be made available from
cbio.mskcc.org for this).  If this works, it will get rid of the security
message.  The features page, manual, and website still need to be finished
as well as the Mac release.  Rowan has created the install anywhere site,
but will look into getting the Cytoscape icon incorporated.

The GO directory will be removed from the release, since it is now in the
annotation directory.

Ethan has changed the website to PHP and has created an ant script to deploy
it to the server (you will need the password to do this).  The website will
be stored in CVS.

The advantage of this setup is:
1.	Anyone can edit the website from CVS and it is centrally stored and
managed
2.	The ant file handles deployment
3.	PHP means that the header and footer need to be edited only once
4.	Dynamic content can be put on the homepage (e.g. an Atom or RSS
feed)

The current proposed website is here, but not finished yet.
http://cytoscape.org/new/index.php

When we get this all of the above done, we should announce Cytoscape 2.0 and
discuss moving to a stable release cycle (e.g. every 6 months) with an
automated daily or weekly build to provide the latest development version.

Mailing lists
We would like to use Google groups for all of our mailing lists (including
Cytostaff).  The advantages are that they are easy to subscribe, manage and
the archives are easy to search.  The proposal that we came up with is as
follows (please read and comment, since we should agree on this before we
implement).

1.	Have a page on Cytoscape.org describing the lists
2.	Have a cytoscape-discuss@googlegroups.com
This would be a public, member posting only list that is publicly advertised
on Google and our website that would serve as public discussion for all
bugs, tech support, etc. (we would stop using bugs@cytoscape.org for this)
We could also make the archive available from a sub page of cytoscape.org
with pointer to Google for searching.
3.	cytoscape-announce@googlegroups.com
This would be a public announce list that anyone could subscribe to, but
only moderators could post to and also be moderated by us.
There is a way to set up our home page to automatically show the messages on
this list (via an atom news feed) that Ethan figured out - see
http://cytoscape.org/new/. We would also put the latest news item on the
header of the page.  So when you want to update the news on Cytoscape, you
just post to the mailing list via e-mail or via the web interface for the
google group.  This will allow us all to keep the news up to date in a much
easier way, which would also automatically send out news items to the
announce mailing list (since it would really be the same thing).
4.	cytoscape-dev@googlegroups.com
This would be member posting only, invite only, advertised only on our
website - not through Google.  The archive would be publicly readable.  We
would use this to replace the current Cytostaff@cytoscape.org mailing list.
The archive would then be nice and searchable and we could easily invite new
people to join.


What should the recommended screen resolution be for Cytoscape?
Proposal is to have it be minimum 1024x768 screen resolution, at least
500MHz CPU and at least 256MB free physical RAM.  We would recommend as much
RAM as possible to work with larger networks (Rob will look into a network
size/memory relationship that we can report for estimating)


