Meeting Minutes for 8/7/2003:
-----------------------------
In attendance:  Trey, Gary, Paul, Andrew, Larissa, Chris, Ethan, Phil.

I.  Welcome Phil Evans

Phil is our newest Cytoscaper.  Welcome, Phil!

II.  Data Cube Discussion

Paul gave an overview of the Data Cube idea.  In broad terms, the data
cube is a generalization of the current expression data object;  the data
expression object is the last class with biological semantics left in the
core.  Paul has proposed that we create a data cube with multiple
dimensions, meta-data, and an easy API for accessing individual points of
data, or various slices of data.

Trey wondered why we needed a data cube, if we already placed everything
in node/edge attributes.  Paul stated that they are fundamentally
"different beasts."  The data cube is for the whole graph, and node/edge
attributes represent node/edge attributes represent nodes/edges at
specific points of interest.

Trey also wondered if the real issue was not back-end data structures, but
how we currently mape expression data to attributes.  As it is now,
everyone agrees that the node browser is very bad at displaying expression
data.  You get too many tabs, and everyone agrees it looks like a mess.  We
also had some preliminary discussion about performance trade-offs.  No
real decisions made on this front.

In the end, we decided to try and separate the large problem into three
smaller, separable problems:  1)  define a back-end data cube class and
API;  2)  re-evaluate the current method by which we map data expression
data to edge/node attributes;  3)  re-evalute the current node browser.

III.  One-Click Install

Several people have reported MacOS X specific problems.  Paul will track
down the problems and report back to us.  Larissa will be working on a
redesigned download page -- she will show it to everyone soon and get
feedback.  Paul nomiated Phil to start the Cytoscape FAQ.

IV.  Graph Library Update

Larissa gave us a quick update on the new graph library.  The library now
uses GINY, and talks to the Picollo Graph Library.  No Y-Files involved.
Larissa is planning on giving us all a demo at the Cytoscape retreat.
Rowen has written some custom layout algorithins that go with the new
graph library package.

Paul recently noticed that the organic layout algorithm seems to result in
two nodes that are on top of each other.  No one else has seen this, but
Paul will look into it further and log the bug.

V.  Code Reviews

Paul suggested that we start "non-threatening" code reviews.  Ethan and
Gary will be code-reviewing Paul's pre-Bind plugin.  Other code reviews
are welcome.

VI.  Author List

We had a general discussion about who exactly goes on the list of
Cytoscape collaborators.  Is it everyone who ever contributed?  Who has
this list?  If we can only list four collaborators, who goes on this list?
Gary recommended that we create a general acknowledgement list, and check
it into cvs.  For the  exact list, everyone agreed that we should defer to
Trey and Benno.



