Minutes 01-23-03

Present:
WhiteHead: Trey, Owen, Jonathan
ISB: Andrew, Paul

Minutes: Andrew

Agenda Items:

1) Progress on visual mapping
2) Issues with Undo
3) switching from Java 1.4.0 -> 1.4.1
4) paper
5) grants
6) an ISB project - reference networks - Paul


1) Progress on visual mapping

Rapid progress is being made on the visual mapping code and its
user interface. Owen and Jonathan got ~half of a UI to the old
vizmap code working, but then switched gears to work on an
interface to the new vizmapper (this UI will share the look and
feel and much of the code of the previous UI). Owen prepared
a test suite for the new vizmap classes and they test out.
Jonathan got a UI to these test suites working. These can be
seen in the csplugins.setVisualProperties plugin.

The core vizmapping classes are mostly done, Andrew is now working
on code to read/save mappings from properties files. This is
moving along and should be done sometime next week; the UI
should also be very far along by next week.

Owen offers the following information on looking at the current
state, in addition to previously emailed information:

if you check out the plugin setVisualProperties

make

and use the cytoscape.props file in the setVisualProperties directory,
you'll see a number of options appear. Many will only work if you have
the BioDataServer apply GO Molecular (level 4) to the nodes. The plugin
called "Set Visual Properties" is the moderately functional
intermediate
interface. All the ones called "Test: ..." are for the new mappings.

Owen


2) Issues with Undo

We agree that it would be nice to have an Undo feature that
works well. It was decided that we're not clear on what needs
to be done to meet this goal. Trey agreed to take a closer look
at the Undo package and talk with Iliana to get more information
on this before making any decisions. The suggestion was that
simply wrapping actions with pre- and post- events could solve
the problems.

Andrew pointed out that this is related to the proposed redesign
and rewrite of CytoscapeWindow. This is estimated to take at least
a few months of FTE work, and is not likely to happen without
additional personnel. Issue tabled for future discussion.

It was agreed to install the proposed changes to allow disabling
the UndoManager when desired.


3) switching from Java 1.4.0 -> 1.4.1

It was agreed that we should formally upgrade to using Java version
1.4.1. The lingering issue with this version spewing errors about
inability to save preferences was mentioned; IT is looking into it.


4) paper

The Cytoscape paper has been provisionally accepted. Trey has taken
the lead in responding to the review including discussions with
Paul, Benno, and Owen. Trey thinks we can address the reviewers
concerns and will send something out by Monday.


5) grants

The search for grant targets continues. Gary did a significant
amount of work here. One identified option is an NIH grant
entitled "Continued Development and Support of Bioinformatics
Software". The general limit would be 500K/yr, 3-5 yrs. This
goes in the normal NIH cycle, the Feb. 1 date is not reasonable,
so the likely submission date would be June 1.


6) an ISB project - reference networks - Paul

Paul made a brief update on a recent project; I don't think I
got all the details. Cytoscape is part of a broader political
landsacpe at ISB of what to do with CompBio. A vision is to
promote the Institute via an impressive software suite including
Cytoscape. Paul described a demo, driven by Java webstart, in
which proteins in a human pathway are shown in one window and
the yeast homologs are shown in a second window, with access to
GO information to help study the pathway. A thought is that the
ISB could provide something like this as a service to the
community. In the coming weeks more will be known regarding the
Institute's plans in this area.

Here is Paul's information to look at the demo:

  http://db.systemsbiology.net:8080/cytoscape

    0) choose NIDA demo (with fix)
    1) human protein network comes up in one window
    2) Plugins -> Reference Network Tools -> Display Reference Network
    3) a window with a part of the yeast interactome pops up
    4) select (for example) PPP2CA and KIAA1541
    5) Plugins -> Reference Network Tools ->
                  Highlight Homologous Reference Nodes
    6) add annotation in the yeast window, see what
       functional and process annotation there is for the
       yeast homologs of the 2 selected human proteins.

    7) Plugins -> Reference Network Tools ->
                  Add edges inferred via homology to ...

       (this adds edges to the human network; different
        colors indicate the length of the yeast pathway)

    8) Select -> Edges -> Select or hide by attributes
       - open up (in the Control Edges dialog you now have)
         the 'interaction' folder.
       - select any one or more 'yeastInference length x' items
       - hit the 'hide' or 'hide others' button
