Minutes for Cytoscape conference call Thursday, March 06, 2003
Minutes: Gary

Attendance:
Paul, Andrew, Benno, Owen, Gary, Trey briefly

Agenda
1.      Cytoscape.org website status
2.      Reference networks as service from Cytoscape
3.      Rewriting
4.      Code things
5.      CVS services - mailing list
6.      Sourceforge status
7.      New software developer position in Benno's lab
8.      Cytoscape icon
9.      Plugin as JAR status

1. Website status (Owen)
        Owen has the new website operational. Cytoscape.org is now DNS
updated (hosted at Cedant), but the DNS change will take a while to
propagate.  The new build of cytoscape is now hosted at 2 sites (Boston and
New York) (Seattle needs to update its mirror). Additions: Link to Paul's
tutorial website, link to web start Cytoscape, Owen's PDF manual (which is a
great start, BTW) and link to Javadoc.

Paul asks "Why are extra download sites needed?"  Owen replies MIT server is
unstable.

If you want to check out the new Cytoscape website before DNS propagation
happens, it is at http://66.175.24.126

2. Reference networks as part of the Cytoscape tutorial (Paul)
With the tutorials, Paul is trying to give people something that they could
use with minimal effort.  E.g. tutorial 2.  One more idea to round out the
tutorials is to make available a service that the ISB has, which allows
exploration of the yeast orthologues of a human pathway.  There is quite a
bit of machinery behind the scenes including running blast and examining the
alignments and allowing the user to save the ones that are most meaningful
to the user. This is already built, but needs to be made available on the
outside of the firewall (easy).  Paul posits that this would be useful to
other people as well.  The service would be a pretty fancy tutorial #3.
Moving forward on this: Paul will put it up for internal tryout to evaluate
for full public release.  Goal is to get it out by end of March.  Everyone
thinks this is great.

3. Rewriting the Cytoscape core to abstract yFiles (Benno)
Benno asked about the status of core rewriting.  Paul estimates that this
will take 2 months starting on April 1.
There is growing dissent about yFiles from Trey, Jonathan and others about
e.g. license issues, etc. that prevent separating plugins from the core.
Trey thinks that the abstraction proposal sounds reasonable because you can
use the graph algorithms in the plugins if you want - just not in the core.
Owen says that only the plugins use the advanced features of yFiles and the
core only uses yFiles layout.

If someone is rewriting anything related to yFiles, they should contact
Jonathan who might be interested in helping out.

Paul mentioned using jGraph as a option for graph layout
(http://jgraph.sourceforge.net/)

4. Code things (Andrew)
Undoable graph hider is now checked in - send bugs reports to Andrew

Reading and writing of props file is almost ready and will likely be checked
in tonight.
Features: Reading from an old props file will prompt the user to help
convert the file using a new UI/window.
Saving props file is supported, still needs to put in calls for where the
file should be saved.
Reading from disk order is 1. Cytoscape home 2. current directory, 3. users
home directory
Problems:  A property of the hash table is that it writes out in random
order, so Andrew writes to buffer and sorts first, then outputs to disk.
A plugin can change the visual mappings, so if you save on exit, you save
the plugin affected stuff.  Owen, Andrew, Paul discussion on this issue.
Result: try using it and see if it becomes annoying.

5. CVS commit messages mailing (Gary)
Owen will set this up.

6. Sourceforge (Benno)
Paul hasn't had time, new hire should be able to chip in on this project.

7. New position in Benno's lab
Together with Hamid Bolouri, Benno will hire a Cytoscape polisher for a
year, code, document, API, make the UI glitzy, tutorials, etc.  Maybe work
on the yFiles replacement.  Less on the guts of development, but rather
other things to help usability.

At least for the first 3 months, the person will work on Cytoscape.
Probably a really good software engineer type person.  Interviews will start
next week.

8.  Cytoscape icon
        Owen asks how people like the Cytoscape icon in the manual?
Discussion progressed to talk about a flash screen for Cytoscape when it
starts with an animated Cytoscape icon that shows what Cytoscape can do.
Tells user that things are being loaded - just like Adobe Photoshop does.
If anyone has images that show off Cytoscape, pass them to Owen.

9. Plugin as a JAR status (Benno)
Owen, Benno and Paul added ideas to this issue.  Result: we would like to
have an abstract base class that all plugins must extend that contains at
least describe and constructor method prototypes.  The constructor would
have the cytoscape window object as its only argument.  Cytoscape could look
for plugins in a specified directory by searching JARs that implement the
constructor method.
