meeting minutes, 03 april 2003

Transcribed by Ethan Cerami

Hi Everybody:

Here are the meeting minutes from yesterday:

1.  Data Layer
Gary gave a quick update on the data layer.  Gary and Ethan will send
out an architecture document tomorrow.  Feedback is most welcome.  A
use case document will follow next week.

2.  Bugs / Feature Requests.
We discussed the following bugs/feature requests:
a.  Adding Version # to the Cytoscape window. (now done)
b.  Ability to load node/edge attributes after startup (e.g. not just
via command line)
c.  Ability to specify a shape for one particular node.

3.  Modifying Cytoscape.props via UI
We discussed the option of being able to modify Cytoscape.props from
the Cytoscape UI.  It would be nice to access all these properties from
a simple UI instead of editing text files.  However, some people
pointed out that the list of properties is definitely shrinking, as the
auto-plugin loader no longer needs to have plugins specifies in the
props file.  Still under consideration.

4.  Error Catching / Handling
General discussion about creating a generic mechanism for capturing
exceptions, and handling them in a consistent manner.  Everyone agreed
that we should do this, but it was decided that it makes more sense to
postpone it until the refactoring phase.

5.  Remote Access to Data
General discussion about loading new data from within Cytoscape.  This
overlaps with item 1 above.

6.  Installer
Do we want to use InstallAnywhere to automate the installation
procedure?  InstallAnywhere is not open source, but can be used to
distribute open source software.  It was decided that we would try it
out, and then get back everybody's feedback on how it works.

7.  Determining Priorities
A number of participants suggested that we create some type of
priorities or to do list, so that we all know which things need greater
/ lesser focus.  Gary suggested that people try the open source Maven
tool.  Trey suggested a program called YAPP.  Ethan will also be
working with Owen to create a simple document on "how to build
plug-ins" using Owen's  new auto-loader.

