
2003-05-15
Present: Gary, Ethan, Owen, Andrew, Paul, Larissa (Rowan joins later)
Scribe: Owen

1. Data Services
   (Ethan)

   It's still available, they changed the password to GRID
   over the weekend, but the new version of the plugin
   has the new password in it.

   Next up: mirroring the GRID database off of MSKCC servers
   rather than hitting the original with all our requests.

   Only Paul has looked at it, says its good, want to perhaps
   look at the code; Ethan and Paul liase over this.

   Gary: the way Osprey speaks to GRID is over the insecure
   MySQL port; they now don't like the idea of Cytoscape
   accessing GRID.  They're happy with us for revealing the
   risk, but they want to limit that risk.  Gary will visit
   them in Toronto on June 3rd.  Tell Gary to ask your questions.

2. Redesign Status
   (Andrew)

   Design has converged for the replacement for yFiles.
   Coming up is the API/description, which we'll be able to
   review.  There was going to be a proposal for Cytoscape
   integration today, but it's not here.  Maybe by next week?

   Probably involves dividing CytoscapeWindow into other
   classes, and converting from yFiles to GINY

   (brief interlude:
      A woman, believed to be in New York, attempts to leave
      voicemail for someone, explaining that she is going
      home now, and detailing how things aren't working.
      It is unclear why she joined our conference call
      during this time, but we weren't able to establish
      bidirectional communication; she eventually concluded
      her message to whomever, and the meeting continued.
   ) 

   Giny Is Not Yfiles
   Graph INterface librarY
   The ideas is to support the yFiles API, so that it's easy
   for other people to make the switch.

   Paul asks Andrew about collaboration with Hamid's group.
   Something fuzzy about scripting cytoscape commands.
   Paul warns of potential overambition that destroys
   flexibility of architecture.
   Discussion of javabeans?  possibility of simple (text-file)
   means of calling cytoscape.  Paul doesn't want things to
   depend on something too complicated.  People seem to like
   command-line interface.

   Gary on the grant: Writing to Trey and Benno to find out
   what's going on.  Andrew has seen nothing from Benno yet.
   Gary resolves to send Andrew

3. Build 1.1 Status
   (Owen)

   If you load expression, then interaction, you get an error.
   Something in the reader.  Andrew will do it tonight.
   Also, there is a bug pertaining to a class that was never
   checked in; it is now checked in.

   Paul has put the files up, Owen will link them.
   Pending Andrew's resolution or delcaration of irresolvability
   of the bug Larissa noticed, Owen will rebuild and post.
   Otherwise, v1.1 is up.


4. Annotation Server Description / Bug Handling
   (Paul)

   Thanks to David Goode's pushing, the document is on its way.
   Can it go on MSKCC?  Sure!  Brief misunderstanding about
   a server.
   
   Also: Hamid Bolouri found some bugs in the interaction
   reader, something about tabs and spaces.  Not really a bug,
   just a totally undocumented feature?  The bug was that if
   you use tabs to delimit, then space characters are not
   trimmed.  Paul's suggestion is to make unit tests out of
   bugs.  Good idea.

   Ethan mentions a bug tracker.  Andrew found a bug in the
   bug tracker.  Irony is unresolved.

   Also Owen is going to Africa, finishing at Whitehead on
   June 6th, and landing in Nairobi on June 25th.

